This will be accompanied by a graphic on Swipe Out Hunger

Donna Heikali, a fourth-year psychobiology student and vice president of Swipe
Out Hunger, said the organization has shifted its focus since she joined during
her sophomore year.

When Heikali first joined, she said students were primarily concerned with
collecting swipes and converting them to vouchers. Now, the club focuses on
raising awareness of the opportunity to enroll in CalFresh and its partnership
with Food Forward.

Students can qualify to receive federal grocery stipends through CalFresh if
they work at least 20 hours a week, receive work-study, have dependents or meet
other criteria.

Swipe Out Hunger and Food Forward began a partnership in 2016 and work together
every week to collect fresh produce from the Thursday farmers market in
Westwood, Heikali said. Students collect the produce that vendors would
otherwise leave behind and distribute it to the Community Programs Office Food
Closet, graduate student apartments and other LA homeless shelters, and the
vendors receive a tax break for their contributions.

Heikali said she realized how important resources like Swipe Out Hunger are to
UCLA students when she participated in a “move day” with Swipe Out Hunger during
her second year. Move days transport donated food from the dining halls to the
CPO Food Closet.

“There was a book (in CPO) that you could write things in, and one person wrote
that the food closet was saving their life,” Heikali said. “That changed
everything for me.”

Swipe Out Hunger
[partnered](https://femmagazine.com/homelessness-awareness-week-at-ucla/) with
The Mobile Clinic Project at UCLA to host Homelessness Awareness Week during
spring quarter. Heikali said the organization hopes to become more involved with
CalFresh in the future.

Eddie Munguia, a third-year psychology student and co-president of Swipe Out
Hunger, said his family is originally from Mexico, but he grew up in a
predominantly low-income area in Oakland. He added he thinks the UCLA community
struggles with finding an effective way to communicate available resources to
students experiencing food insecurity.

“Once I realized there was an anonymous aspect to hunger, it impacted me,”
Munguia said. “It could be a TA, a student, your roommate.”

In the future, he hopes Swipe Out Hunger will create closer ties with Bruin
Shelter. He added he is trying to bridge the gap between housing and food
insecurity and get resources directly to students using Bruin Shelter.

“You come to UCLA, which is a nice campus, and despite how nice that campus is
there are still very real issues going on,” Munguia said. “I wasn’t able to
understand that until I joined Swipe Out Hunger and saw the numbers and data.”
